Proximity of neighborhoods was often applied to describe accessibility. In this study, a proximity-based methodology of accessibility computing was developed drawing on previous research of Logan et al. (2022) with high resolution. Two statistics of accessibility, which are ‘the percentage of residents living within 20 min’ (PR20) and ‘population-weighted average travel time’ (PWT), were used to represent accessibility of DZs. PR20 directly evaluates the 20-minute neighborhood by indicating what percentage of residents have that threshold of access. PWT included travel time beyond 20 min and used the population-weighted average to determine the average time that people in the neighbourhood have to travel. PWT was included to prevent bias of relying solely on PR20 that might neglect residents who have no “access”.

To explore fine-resolution and city-wide accessibility, travel time from every residential building to amenities was initially intended to be computed. However, residential buildings were found to be clustered within OA boundary. To prevent redundant computation, centroids of residential buildings clusters were computed as start point of network analysis to nearest amenities. DBSCAN (Density-Based Spatial Clustering of Applications with Noise) is an effective method for clustering analysis which does not require a specific input number of cluster. It is an unsupervised machine learning method identifying the clusters based on minimum density threshold (Min Pts) and maximum neighborhood radius (Eps) from any sample object (Ester et al., 1996). The Python library of R5py (developed by Fink et al. (2022)) was used to create a joint network of streets and calculate travel time metrics. Walking time from every point to amenities was calculated based on an assumed average walking speed of 1.14 m/s for older adults to make sure the result covers the widest range of ages. The methodology is presented through a flowchart below and step-by-step description, providing comprehensive process of accessibility computation.

Step 1: Cluster residential buildings
Using DBSCAN to group residential buildings into clusters within each Output Area (OA). 100m was chosen as distance threshold considering the width of residential buildings and the walking distance of 1 minute, often ranging from 60 m to 100 m . Residential buildings within an Epsilon (ε) of 100m of each other were considered neighbors and grouped into one cluster . After that, centroids of residential clusters were generated .

Step 2: Calculate maximum travel time to nearest amenities
For each centroid of cluster within OA, the walking time to the nearest grocery store, primary school, GP (general practitioner), pharmacies and park were computed. The maximum travel time to nearest 5 types of amenities was utilized as representation of accessibility of single residential centroid. For example, if a residential cluster is 4 minutes away from a grocery store, 5 minutes away from the nearest primary school, and 7 minutes away from the nearest GP, the cluster will be assigned a time of 7 minutes, as that is the maximum time it takes to access all the amenities (Moreno et al., 2021). Regarding to some OAs with no residential buildings, centroid of OA boundary was generated as start point of network. 

Step 3: Calculate OA's average travel time
Instead of relying on a single centroid of boundary for the entire Output Area without locating where the people reside, the centroids of residential building clusters provided more accurate distribution of population. Normally, there are several centroids of residential clusters in each OA. Average travel time of all centroids was calculated to represent the OA’s average travel time. By applying this method, travel time of OA, with residential buildings that are dispersed or divided by parks and industries, could be sensibly calculated.

Once the OAs’ average travel time were calculated, population data stored in OAs was applied to generate neighbourhood-wide (DZ-wide) accessibility statistics.

